# How the Web Works

- client-server architechture.

- Web is considered a distributed software.

- The browser is programmed to understand and display HTML files.

- You build over the browser when you program for web.

- You Build over the Server when you program for web.

## Static Websites

- These Websites were more prevalent when the web was young.

- The Workflow is as follows:

  - User requests the content.

  - Server retrieves files from harddisk.

  - Server sends HTML and other content to browser.

  - Browser renders and displays the files.

- The webmaster is responsible for upkeep and maintanence.

## Dynamic Websites 

- More prevalent now.

- The Workflow is as follows:
  
  - User requests content.
  
  - Server recognises it must run a dynamic script (PHP,JSP,ASP,etc).

  - Server excecutes the script (Using Common Gateway Interface).

  - Script Outputs HTML.

  - Server sends the generated HTML and media files to user.

  - Browser renders and displays the files.  

- Pages change as inputs change.

## Web 2.0 and Beyond

- Its not a new technology, its a new requirment for web applications to 
give a richer experience. 

- In Web 2.0, web page creation is distributed between clients and servers. This
creates a more interactive web experience such as social media websites.

## IPV4 vs IPV6
Any device on the internet has a unique IP address. There are 2 
IP protocols in use. 

- IPV4 :

  - Older and being phased out

  - 4 8 bit components

  - 2^32 addresses possible

  - almost full

- IPV6 :

 - Newer, current protocol

 - 8 16 bit components

 - 2^128 addresses possible

 - Will probably never full up

## Where is the Internet?

- Nobody actually owns the internet

- It doesnt really exist in one physical location

In reality, nobody actually "owns" the internet, but many organisations 
and companies are part of managing it. For example, ISP's Manage the
Infrastucture , Companies produce hardware that lets us access it, Organisations
like ICANN and W3F manage it, etc. Its a group of overseers that agree on 
using something. 

But the internet is a real, physical thing, its just very distributed. 

## Domain Names

- Makes it easier to memorize website names

- Its like a contact name on your phone. It finds the number that is attached
to the name and dials it. 

- This is done on a Domain Name Server(DNS)

- The Workflow is as follows:
  
  - The browser sends the domain name we enter to the DNS server.

  - The DNS server looks up the domain name and finds its IP.

  - The DNS server returns the IP address.

## Internet Exchange Points

- Allow ISP's to peer (interconnect) with eachother in a shared facility ,
improving performance for each partner in the peer relationship.

- to buy a domain on a certain IXP, we contact one of these partners
and reserve it. The request is sent to the IXP to see if it is taken or not.
If it is not taken, then you can assign it. Every region(or country usually) 
has an IXP.

- When we want a server, the DNS server asks the IXP if it knows what is the 
IP address of a domain is. If it is not cached on the DNS, it is cached.
  
## Domain Hosting 

- After Buying a domain, We have to host a website somewhere. This somewhere
is a hosting server. After that, we connect our Domain name to our domain. 
Now, When someone enters www.ourwebsite.com, the DNS server points them 
to our website.

- Where you host is entierly up to you. You can host your website at a hosting
company or host it on your own servers(so as long as the IP address is static).

- If you do change the hosting server or the IP address, people can still
find you by your domain name since it always points to you.

